Add enhancement for topology configuration (#1225)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/storage/csi-vsphere-operator.md

We will ensure that these steps are documented in 4.10 docs.

#### Configure CSI driver topology

> A customer may configure a topology for the CSI driver by using following fields in `ClusterCSIDriver` object:

Reviewer: What part of this is talking about new fields and what part is context based on existing fields?

Author: updated it to reflect field being used to configure the topology. Also ended up renaming `topology_categories` to `tagCategories`. Shorter and sticks to more of k8s conventions (i guess).

```go
// ClusterCSIDriverSpec is the desired behavior of CSI driver operator
type ClusterCSIDriverSpec struct {
    ...
    ...

>     // `driverConfig` field can be used to optionally specify
>     // driver specific configuration.
>     // If this field is nil, platform chosen default configuration
>     // will be applied.
>     DriverConfig *CSIDriverConfigSpec `json:"driverConfig,omitempty"`

Reviewer 2: This is a configuration API so we tend to avoid pointers, it harms discoverability

You'll want to add tags for `+optional` or `+kubebuilder:validation:Required` to every field in this addition

No need to backtick quote the name at the beginning

Some other minor changes to be consistent with other common language
```suggestion
    // driverConfig can be used to specify CSI driver specific configuration.
    // When omitted, this means no opinion and the platform is left to choose sensible defaults.
    // Those defaults are subject to change over time.
    DriverConfig CSIDriverConfigSpec `json:"driverConfig,omitempty"`
```

}

// CSIDriverConfigSpec defines configuration spec that can be
// used to optionally configure a specific CSI Driver.
// +union
type CSIDriverConfigSpec struct {
    // `driverName` indicates which of the driver we are
    // installing
    // +unionDiscriminator

>     // +required

Reviewer 2: This isn't a valid tag in the upstream tooling, please use
```suggestion
    // +kubebuilder:validation:Required
```

    DriverName CSIDriverName `json:"driverName"`

>     // `vsphere` field is used to configure vsphere CSI driver
>     // specific properties

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // vsphere is used to configure the vsphere CSI driver
```

    // +optional
    VSphere *VSphereCSIDriverConfigSpec `json:"vsphere"`
}

type VSphereCSIDriverConfigSpec struct {
    // `topologyCategories` indicates categories with which
    // vcenter resources as hostcluster or datacenter were tagged with.
    // If unspecified CSI driver configuration will default to configuration

>     // specified in cluster configuration.

Reviewer 2: I'm not really sure what this means, is this saying something that has been configured by the user or something that the CSI driver will create?

Where does the cluster configuration live? Is that an openshift thing?

Is this referring to vSphere tag categories?

    // +optional

>     TopologyCategories []string `json:"topology_categories"`

Reviewer 3: `json:topologyCategories`?

Author: renamed.

```

Specifying topology as day-2 operation will not affect any of existing PVs in the cluster and they will remain with whatever topology configuration created with.

Specifying topology here will cause CSI driver to be deployed with topology configuration as specified in https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere-Container-Storage-Plug-in/2.0/vmware-vsphere-csp-getting-started/GUID-162E7582-723B-4A0F-A937-3ACE82EAFD31.html .

If customer had configured upstream CSI driver with an topology, they must ensure that they are using same values for CSI driver configuration here.

> The intent of this change is compatible with changes introduced in - https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/918 . If `driverConfig` is unspecified,

Reviewer: If that PR is merged you could link directly to the text.

Author: ack. If I am not wrong, that feature is going tech. preview in 4.12, so I think the enhancement should merge and once it does I will update this one.

We will ensure that these steps are documented in 4.10 docs.

#### Configure CSI driver topology

A customer may configure a topology for the CSI driver by using following fields in `ClusterCSIDriver` object by specifying
field `.driverConfig.vsphere.tagCategories`

```go
// ClusterCSIDriverSpec is the desired behavior of CSI driver operator
type ClusterCSIDriverSpec struct {
    ...
    ...
    // `driverConfig` field can be used to optionally specify
    // driver specific configuration.
    // If this field is nil, platform chosen default configuration
    // will be applied.
    DriverConfig *CSIDriverConfigSpec `json:"driverConfig,omitempty"`
}

// CSIDriverConfigSpec defines configuration spec that can be
// used to optionally configure a specific CSI Driver.
// +union
type CSIDriverConfigSpec struct {
    // `driverName` indicates which of the driver we are
    // installing
    // +unionDiscriminator
    // +required
    DriverName CSIDriverName `json:"driverName"`

    // `vsphere` field is used to configure vsphere CSI driver
    // specific properties

>     VSphere VSphereCSIDriverConfigSpec `json:"vsphere"`

Reviewer 3: `json: vSphere`?

Author: I was thinking if someone is going to edit the json by hand, it will look like:

```json
{
"spec": {
  "driverConfig": {
     "vsphere": {
         "tagCategories": ["foo", "bar"]
      }
  }
}
```

Basically we don't have to be so verbose in user editable json. But I expect another round of back and forth during api reviews, so we can have these discussions there too.

Author: So basically because outer key already has word "driverConfig" in it - I dropped `CSIDriverConfig` suffix from the key, because it is redundant.

>     VSphere VSphereCSIDriverConfigSpec `json:"vsphere"`

Reviewer 3: And it should be probably a pointer. Only one of (future) `xxCSIDriverConfigSpec` members may be non-nil.

Author: fixed

}

type VSphereCSIDriverConfigSpec struct {
    // `tagCategories` indicates categories with which
    // vcenter resources as hostcluster or datacenter were tagged with.
    // If unspecified CSI driver configuration will default to configuration
    // specified in cluster configuration.
    // +optional

>     TagCategories []string `json:"tagCategories"`

Reviewer 3: I think it should be mentioned somewhere that these tag categories are used for topology. Maybe even in the field name - `topologyTagCategories`?

Author: heh, I was using the name `topologyCategories` before but then I changed it to `tagCategories` to be shorter and inline with what @jcpowermac is proposing in his PR.

}
```

> Specifying topology as day-2 operation will not affect any of existing PVs in the cluster and they will remain with whatever topology configuration created with.

Reviewer 3: I would also mention that **changing** topology will not update existing PVs.

Author: fixed

Specifying topology here will cause CSI driver to be deployed with topology configuration as specified in https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere-Container-Storage-Plug-in/2.0/vmware-vsphere-csp-getting-started/GUID-162E7582-723B-4A0F-A937-3ACE82EAFD31.html .

If customer had configured upstream CSI driver with an topology, they must ensure that they are using same values for CSI driver configuration here.

The intent of this change is compatible with changes introduced in - https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/918 . If `driverConfig` is unspecified,
the CSI driver deployment in new clusters will default to platform specific defaults which will come from `Infrastructure` object if configured as defined in
enhancement#918.

The values specified in `Infrastructure` object will take precedence over user configuration (and user specified changes will be wiped away). Users can only

> configure `TopologyCategories` categories if OCP platform configuration does not specify a topology and user would like to use one for CSI driver.

Reviewer 3: > Users can only configure `TopologyCategories` categories if OCP platform configuration does not specify a topology 

How will users get an error when they have topology both in ClusterCSIDriver and in Infrastructure? Alert? ValidationWebhook?

Author: For now I was thinking adding an event and a condition somewhere.
